hey people john here from fast films and
today we're covering a 2006 horror movie
called stay alive
the starting scenes of the film depict
the visions from a video game where the
main character enters a haunted house
and faces various ghosts and corpses
after facing several demons the
character eventually dies as he gets
pushed from the mezzanine and gets hung
by the chains
after the game is over the movie shows
us the player who calls his friend to
tell him about the creepy game
after ending the call he reluctantly
gets up and goes upstairs to find his
other two friends making out with each
other
the guy jokes a bit and goes to sleep in
the middle of the night he wakes up and
walks downstairs to grab something to
drink but his senses tell him about
something unusual
the eeriness looms over him and he
suddenly turns around to witness the
horrifying sight of a huge shadow
staring at him
the guy freaks out and runs upstairs to
find a ruthless bloodbath of his friends
he traces his steps backwards but
something suddenly pulls him and he
breaks the railing to end up hanging to
a rope as his corpse dangles the camera
blacks out the following morning we see
the deceased's friend named hutch
walking to the office where he meets his
boss miller and they discuss the ideas
about the game development and their
possible scenarios
in the meantime hutch receives a call
and the world shifts around his head as
he hears about his friend loomis's death
in order to pay his condolences he goes
to the funeral and meets everyone
as he sits in the front row a girl in
the background snaps his picture and
later walks up to him and they start
talking
she states that she was a friend of
loomis's girlfriend during their talk
loomis's sister emma comes to greet
hutch and offers him a bag containing
loomis's video games
afterwards hutch bids farewell to emma
and accepts the number from the
photographer girl named abigail later he
walks to a gaming club where he meets
with a girl named october and her
brother finn
the raw guy jokes about loomis's death
but keeps it light as hutch explains the
whole incident his friends take out the
stuff from the bag and october
enthusiastically watches hutch's
childhood pictures with loomis
meanwhile finn pulls out a lighter and a
sudden dreadful flashback appears before
hutch's eyes
ignoring that finn advances to pull out
the disc for the game named stay alive
all of them check the game that loomis
played before dying and finn suggests
trying it out anyway
later that night hutch is at home
washing glasses when his friend named
swink comes over
the others join in as well and they all
settle in front of the tv to turn on the
game
before they can start miller joins them
as well from his office and all of them
coordinate to play the video game
the game starts off with a script the
prayer of elizabeth being shown in a
diary abigail gives a thought that it
might be voice activated and it turns
out to be so
everyone chants the seance and the game
begins as the players customize their
characters the voice dictates that
they've made a grave mistake and will
soon die for it furthermore they've been
marked for death and this choice has
brought them to jerich plantation upon
hearing that october states that she has
heard this story from her grandma
the voice continues to explain the story
of countess elizabeth battory and the
game shifts into action where the
players face a small ghost to avoid them
it is instructed to throw a red rose so
that the undead can be eradicated with
that they play on everyone gets
immensely indulged in the game including
miller but he starts to get queasy due
to the gory scenes in the game and just
as he reaches the torture chamber the
countess comes from behind and kills his
character
miller gets exhausted and unwell as he
explains the scenario to his friends
just then someone moves in his hall but
swing just excuses it as perceptive
reality afterwards all of the friends
decide to end the game and leave
miller also do so but as he leaves his
office the door opens behind him all by
itself
he walks back to close it but the same
thing occurs as he turns around again
for the second time he walks in and
finds his controller vibrating with a
smile he gets back up but there a
horrendous ghost attacks him and
finishes him amidst his echoing screams
the following day hutch returns to
office and receives the tragic news of
miller's death he sits aside in grief
when a detective named thibodeaux comes
to him and starts a brief inquiry hutch
tells him about everything and he leaves
him with a card as he gets up hutch
takes one sorrowful look at miller who
lay dead on the table
later they returned to the gaming cave
where we witnessed that miller was
killed the exact same way he died in the
game
finn doesn't think of it as much of a
big deal which is off-putting for
everyone and they leave him playing
alone
outside on the balcony october asks
abigail about her life and she states
that her dad is an architect and her
mother as a kindergarten school teacher
moreover she's going to princeton
everyone admires her perfect life and
october flares up a lighter which gives
hutch a strong shudder
upon abigail's inquiry hutch regards it
as an old incident and waves it away
afterwards they discussed the
possibilities of how both of their
friends were murdered after they
finished playing the game in the
meantime finn can be seen starting the
game on his own and his player breaks a
mirror as a horse carriage runs behind
him
but instead of playing further he pauses
it right there on the other hand after
hutch's conclusion all of them run
towards finn who is just dramatically
asleep they take a sigh of relief and
finn gets up to state that hutch is just
overthinking and creeping it out for
everyone else
afterwards everyone goes on with their
regular routines swing fondles the
computers october cleans the coffee
machine hutch goes for a shave while
finn checks on his car
during all of this everyone experiences
an abnormality finn almost gets crushed
by a truck the illusion of mirror
cracking springs in front of hutch
october visualizes a ghost behind her
while swings keyboard and system starts
bleeding out ignoring all of that they
continue their routines and hutch sneaks
into the archives where he steals all
the files and details from the police
systems
but as he's leaving a ghost crosses the
end of the hall later that day he meets
up with his friends and puts forward his
idea of the killings again
he correlates the death of the players
in the game with the real killings and
how they all died the same way
that freaks out everyone in october then
explains the story of jarrett plantation
and how there's this possibility that
elizabeth bartory is back and is now
hunting for them as he hunted in her
time period on a horse-drawn carriage
but this time hutch refuses to believe
her story and contradicts her on the
other hand we witness finn enjoying his
drive while blaring the music on the
speakers
as he drives along the empty stretch of
road the weather starts to darken and
suddenly a kid appears in front of his
car
finn swerves his vehicle aside
aggressively and it gets stuck he walks
out on the empty road and calls his
friends to tell them about his situation
they all decide to come for him in the
meantime finn starts hearing the naying
of horses around him
worry stricken he looks around in
confusion and suddenly out of nowhere
the horse carriage appears behind finn
and runs over him
unfortunately his friends arrive late
and finn expires his sister drops beside
his dead body and starts mourning over
his demise
meanwhile hutch finds out that finn also
died the same way he was killed in the
game he tries to explain it to detective
thibodeaux along with the evidence but
the detective takes him aside meanwhile
the other officer named king starts
playing the game where he also dies
suddenly hutch runs back and closes the
laptop stating not to touch the game at
all
but the officer reacts to him and lets
him be him later all the fines sit in
the gloomy mood while october blames
hutch for her brother's death as he was
the one who brought the game
therefore hutch deeply apologizes to her
as she becomes determined to seek
revenge in the meantime the officer
named king walks into a video game store
and asks for the stay alive game but the
counter guy states that there's no such
game like that
therefore king leaves the store but just
as he climbs in his truck he catches the
glimpse of a ghost in his rear view
mirror and gets murdered ruthlessly
the scene now shifts to hutch and
abigail who try to sneak into loomis
crowley's mansion hutch explains their
friendship since childhood and how they
took him in after his parents left
furthermore he states the biggest
tragedy of his life was when his angry
father lit the whole house on fire and
his mother got engulfed by the fire
that's the reason he cringes from the
fire as they discuss this hutch climbs
in from the window and opens the door
for abigail they observe the broken
railing and walk into loomis's room to
find his cell phone and on that hutch
reads the address of the gaming company
where loomis got the game from
with that lead they drive towards 1420
cypress road and gain assistance of
navigation from their friends
in the meantime october states about the
book called the malleus demonium which
explains that you have to put three
nails in elizabeth's heart neck and
forehead
furthermore they have to burn it later
in order to cleanse her undead soul
hutch temporarily refuses to believe it
but he gets left with no choice
meanwhile the new shows the death of the
officer and at the same time police
arrive to raid their apartment october
and swing barely make it out from the
backside as the police barge in and toss
the apartment detective thibodeaux finds
a paper regarding the facts about
elizabeth bottoury on the other hand the
guys drive to loomis house where they
argue about the seance but they suddenly
find out that the game is already being
played and october is outside
someone is watching her through the
window of a wretched building and in
reality october is actually outside an
old building and someone is watching her
she slowly enters the abandoned building
while her friends run out looking for
her inside the dark spaces october
cautiously walks amidst the hall where
she finds an ankle shackle on the floor
instantly some entity passes in front of
her and disappears october then takes
out a hammer and some nails from the
side and finds a nail gun as well
holding it as her weapon she nears the
ghost of elizabeth and fires the nails
but they fly through her and she's
unharmed due to the failure of her
attempt october tries to run away for
her life but gets shackled by the ankle
brace
in the meantime her friends hear her
screams and try to enter the site but
the door gets locked october is hoisted
up in the air upside down and elizabeth
slashes across her neck
just then her group runs inside and
hutch finds her bleeding out
the tragedy then befalls them as october
also dies in their arms
the next scenario shows us the group
driving towards the house during the
drive abigail reveals that her life is
not perfect and she has nothing except
this van they're traveling in
they all listen to her and decide to put
an end to it
swink opens the game and decides to play
it as it can't be stopped after a while
they arrive at the 1420 house abigail
and hutch walk towards it while swing
plays the game inside the house abigail
locates different floor plans and finds
elizabeth doll on the other hand swink
realizes that he's in the game at the
same house and he calls hutch to tell
him about it he guides him to the back
door by playing the game meanwhile
abigail roams into the room upstairs
following swing's guidelines hutch goes
to the backyard and after crossing a
gate he comes across the real jarrett
plantation and the tower of elizabeth
batory in the interim abigail enters the
wardrobe and emerges into a workshop
filled with insect infested dolls and
satanic illustrations
she even finds elizabeth's diary but
that immediately causes everything
around her to go dark hutch hears her
terrorized shrieks and uses swing's
guidelines to reach abigail he climbs
the stairs and runs towards the room
while we witness abigail being caught up
by the ghosts
luckily swink uses the game to throw
roses towards the captivated abigail and
that liberates her in real life as her
life is saved hutt shows his gratitude
to swing
unfortunately swink gets in trouble as
the ghost now chases him in the carriage
he runs through the forest for the
safety of his life and falls down to
cover himself with roses but as hutch
and abigail return to the van they see
that swing's game is over following the
tragedy hutch breaks down but they have
to be on the run again as the carriage
charges towards them through the jarrod
plantation
they make it to the tower and abigail
runs inside while hutch uses a rose to
disintegrate the ravenous horse carriage
afterwards they enter the tower and
follow the stairs to a crypt where they
constantly evade the monsters by using
the roses after entering a chamber hutch
walks towards the tower staircase but
the door gets locked behind him abigail
wishes him the best of luck and hands
him the lighter to burn elizabeth's body
in order to finish all the drama he
climbs the staircase and comes across
elizabeth's corpse as he plunges the
nails in her body abigail gets captured
by elizabeth's ghost and she's hung
upside down
abigail screams in terror but just as
the ghost is about to impale her hutch
inserts the last nail in elizabeth's
forehead and the ghost disappears
but the whole tower begins to shudder
when elizabeth's corpse gets alive she
advances towards hutch but he uses the
laptop's shiny screen to show elizabeth
her reflection which enrages her and she
attains a horrific expression
just then hutch turns on the lighter and
puts her aflame as the witch burns in
agony hutch scoops up on the side and
his childhood trauma flashbacks to him
he isn't able to let go of it but just
then swink an abigail barge in the room
and help him escape
finally they leave the tower burning and
slowly move out of the jericho
plantation
in the final moments of the film we
witness that the game stay alive as
officially released in the stores as a
major game
all the people are now chanting the
seance and with that the movie concludes
thanks for watching guys